Subject: Anatomy of a self-financing study for HIV-AIDS rethinkers

Background
----------

The following theses have been put forward at various times:

1)  An AIDS epidemy does not exist
2)  HIV does not cause AIDS
3)  2 positive HIV antibody tests using different methods are not
    correlated with ongoing HIV infection
4)  AIDS is not lethal
5)  HIV infection does not necessarily lead to any lethal disease
6)  AIDS can be caused by use of strong (legal or illegal) drugs, AZT being
    one of them
7)  AIDS in promiscuous homosexuals is caused by rectal insemnification
8)  AIDS in hemophiliacs is caused by Factor VIII
9)  AIDS in Africa is caused by malnourishment
10) AIDS in transfusion recipients is caused by the underlying disease
11) AIDS in children of drug abusing mothers is caused by this very
    drug abuse
12) AIDS can be caused by the strong belief that one suffers from a
    lethal desease

Here I want to propose a combination of scientific study and business
plan that has the following properties:

- the study will decide whether one of 1) - 5) is true or all of them
  are false.
- the outcome of the study is independent of the truth values of
  claims 6) - 12) and also of the particular definition for AIDS used.
- the business part of the proposal will generate money if one of 1) -
  5) is true; otherwise it will loose money

Proposal
--------

A life insurance policy for the group of people who fulfill all of the
following criteria is offered.

- 2 positive HIV antibody tests using different methods
- Not having taken in the past or currently taking any strong legal or
  illegal drugs, including AZT and Factor VIII based products
- Not malnourished
- No known servere diseases
- Not engaging in receptive anal intercourse
- Not born to a drug abusing mother

In addition, as a condition of the insurance policy, the policy holder
agrees to submit to regular thorough health examinations, the results
of which form the basis for the accompanying scientific
study. Furthermore, the policy holder looses all their rights
resulting from the policy should they start to take any strong legal
or illegal drugs at any time in the future without the consent of the
insurer. 

To make sure that the results of the study be made public, it is
preferable that the to-be-created insurance company be a publicly
traded company and will hence have to issue regular business reports.

The end of the study can be defined as follows:

- bancruptcy of the insurance company, 
   
   or

- success of the insurance company, as evidenced by rising stock
  prices and adoption of similar policies by other life insurers.

Rationale
---------

There are many people fitting the above criteria: HIV positive sex
partners of transfusion recipients or hemophiliacs or injecting drug
users, HIV positive children of (sex partners of) transfusion
recipients or hemophiliacs, HIV positive laboratory and health care
workers and their HIV positive children.

It can be assumed that these people are eager to buy the afore
mentioned policy (even for a higher than usual price) since they
cannot currently get any life insurance policy without lying (and
hence running the risk of forfeiting all policy benefits) and since
they have an interest in providing for their immediate family.

The very fact that the insurer believes that HIV does not cause lethal
disease and is even willing to bet on this belief should take care of
claim 11). In fact, it can be argued that this study/insurance
combination is the only way to circumvent claim 11) short of not
disclosing the HIV status to patients (which clearly would be
unethical).

Should the medical establishment refuse to abandon the HIV-AIDS
hypothesis even in the event of a positive outcome of the study, the
business part will at least have created a source of permanent income
which can be used to finance further investigations. In fact, the
profit of the insurance company will be higher in this case, since
competitors will presumably be reluctant to adopt similar policies.


Axel Boldt
boldt@math.ucsb.edu
http://emile.math.ucsb.edu/~boldt/
